## Flash Loans

We must remember that these are simply tools that, when used correctly, can actually do more good than harm.If your protocol is susceptible to flash loan attacks, it's really your protocol's fault in the first place. Using flash loans can actually do a lot of fantastic things, such as leveraged arbitrage or swapping collateral out of loan positions without having to repay the debt of the loan positions.

Traditionally, when you look at a loan or you do some type of loan, the simplest way to talk about a loan is to actually put down some collateral. If I want a loan, I've got some collateral, maybe a house or land. I can say, "I really need to lend money." I'll put down my land as collateral if you give me the money. " The lender inspects the land, and if everything is great, he lends me the money. Now that I've put land as collateral, I clearly don't want to lose my house. Typically, the loan money given to me is less valuable than my home, so if I do not repay, the lender will repossess my home. This is known as `over collateralized lending`.Now that I've lent money, I can do whatever I want. One of those things I can do is what's called `arbitrage`.

Let's say we have two exchanges. One says ETH is $50 and the other says $100. An easy way for me to make money is to do arbitrage.I take my borrowed money and buy a ton of ETH at a $50 price, and then I sell it at a $100 price. I've essentially just made $50 if I buy 1 ETH at $50 and sell that 1 ETH at $100.I've now just made $50.Now I can go back to my lender and give the loan money back, get my house back, and also have a $50 profit.

The issue is that sometimes you're broke as hell and you can't actually put down any cash. You don't have anything to put down. But if you see an arbitrage opportunity or a position where you know you need a lot of collateral quickly, wouldn't it be great if you put nothing down? That'd be great, but that thing doesn't exist outside of the blockchain world.

In the blockchain world, if you borrow money and repay it in the exact same transaction, Ethereum and lending protocols go, "Yep, looks good to me." In a flash loan, I borrow money, use that money to buy ETH, sell that ETH for a nice profit, and return the money all in the exact same transaction. Ethereum allows this to happen because in that same transaction, Ethereum knows and can test in code whether or not you can pay back that money in the exact same transaction. Often times, the lenders have a really small premium or a really small fee for borrowing that in the first place. They're happy because they're getting paid either way. This is clearly a really powerful tool that we can use. We can borrow something with almost no money.You have got to pay a little bit of the premium and also gas fees.
